In addition to the java.util
function package,
Java also provides us with
a java.util.stream package for
your functional programming needs.
So a stream represents a sequence
of elements from a collection,
from an array, or some other input source.
So the way that it works, it does not
store elements like collections do.
Instead, it allows you to
perform operations on the data
without affecting the original
data source, right?
So it contains built-in methods and
classes and
interfaces that allow you
to perform some operations.
So given that you have an original source,
you could then call any
of the stream operations.
And it could do some sort of processing of
the data without affecting
the original source.
So the original source stays intact and
you can output what would happen,
blah, blah, blah, I've processed
this in this way, here's the output.
So here's an array of numbers.
So we could create a stream of this
array simply by calling string.
So this is on the arrays class.
This would be a static method
on arrays that says, okay,
turn, take that data source and
I need to make a stream out of it.
Given the stream, I then can do
a dot on that stream to perform
any operations that I want, so
I can use forEach, for example.
Now, on the numbers array by itself,
I wouldn't have access to this
forEach method, so this is a great
way to have the forRach on arrays.
You would turn it into a stream, say
forEach, and then do whatever you want.
So in this case,
this is gonna print out the number +1.
So that would be the output.
Now, that's the output, right?
I have not modified
the numbers array at all.
That array still stays intact
the way that it is, but
I performed some operation on
the data that was there, and
then produced the output based on that.
Right, so
the stream API also provides a method
to process operations on
the elements in parallel.
So I can do a couple of different
operations all at the same time.
So if I did this, I'm basically saying
in parallel, I want you to run forEach.
So it's just kinda doing
it kinda randomly.
And notice the numbers are not in
any sort of order or anything,
because they all were kinda
happening at the same time.
Now, it's going to use multiple threads
to process the elements at the same time.
So again, it's not gonna be sequential.
Every time you run this,
it's likely to be different, or whatever.
So if you cared about ordering and
stuff, this is not a great use.
If you don't care,
you just need everything done, right,
then this would be effective.
So the stream API provides several useful
operations that can be performed on its
trees, and these operations can be either
intermediate or they are terminal.
For intermediate operations,
it's gonna return the resulting stream
after it's finished what it's doing.
And this will enable
you to continue running
even more operations on
that resulting stream.
Again, the original data
source wasn't affected, right?
So the stream has all
of that data processed.
It could say, here's that stream,
the resulting stream back to you in case
you wanna do some more processing on it.
Or with the terminal one,
it closes the stream.
It means this is the final operation
that can be performed on that stream,
and the stream is closed.